[Music]
so did Megalodon definitely go extinct
cut I sure hope so the ocean is vast and
filled with terrifying looking creatures
but the prehistoric Megalodon would put
him all this shame for over ten million
years the toothy megladon ruled the
world's waters and we're thanking our
lucky stars it doesn't exist at a while
theories out there argue that these bad
boys of the ocean are still around
there's no doubt that they're long gone
and extinct still don't believe it just
get ready for a big dose of scientific
evidence
but first don't forget to click on the
subscribe button and turn on
notifications to join us on the
Brightside
[Applause]
meet the megladon
the largest shark ever documented in
earth's history the largest Megalodon
tooth ever found which measures at about
7 inches long is almost three times
larger than the teeth you'll find in the
great white sharks of today the
Megalodon sported 276 of these giant and
sharply serrated teeth that could rip
the flesh of dolphins whales and
possibly even other sharks according to
the Natural History Museum in London
scared yet
well I am but don't go running for the
hills just yet Megalodon has long been
extinct despite blockbuster hit movies
like 2018 the Meg and conspiracy
theories running rampant on the Internet
these prehistoric sea beasts no longer
exist yep
rest assured that Megalodon did in fact
go extinct 2.6 million years ago and the
proof is in the scientific pudding my
favorite flavor
about 2.6 million years ago mark the
beginning of the era known as the
Pleistocene at the beginning of this era
temperatures began to cool and glacier
started to form all over if you're
thinking this was the time of the ice
ages
you'd be right oh my friend due to the
planets falling temperatures things
started changing in the earth oceans for
one thing whale started migrating to
find more food lending them closer to
the poles being one of the megalodons
primary meal to goes it became harder in
harder for the humongous predator to
find whales to munch on perhaps this was
the reason for megalodons extinction
well that's what scientists thought up
until 2016 when dr. Catalina Pia Mentos
and her team of researchers came onto
the scene and said that this probably
wasn't the case at all while there's no
doubt that the Megalodon definitely went
extinct it probably wasn't because they
couldn't keep up with whales in the
cooler temperatures and that's because
Megalodon fossils have actually been
found in waters as cold as 33 degrees
Fahrenheit which means that these giant
sharks weren't afraid of ice cold
temperatures sure they typically
preferred a much cozier 53 to 80 degrees
setting but Pia mentos studies showed
that they could totally bare ice waters
this isn't all that hard to believe
since today sharks are actually mezzo
thermic meaning they're able to keep
their body temperature slightly warmer
even when surrounding waters are colder
than they'd like
[Music]
okay so if the whales new migration
patterns weren't what killed the
Megalodon species then what did like
with so many things
the answer is competition that's right
even though the Megalodon were ferocious
and scary they were actually other
flesh-eating predators sharing the ocean
that liked to eat a lot of the same
things that these giant sharks did talk
about a dog-eat-dog world or rather a
shark eat sure about sure never mind you
get the point one of the megalodons
biggest competitors in the deep blue
during the mid Miocene era was the now
extinct genus of sperm whale known as
the Livia and Mel villa these
prehistoric sperm whales had shorter
jaws than today's sperm whales and they
were able to chomp down on sharks and
even other whales yeah and these weren't
the only carnivorous whales that roamed
the ocean waters during this era by the
end of the Maya scene a new shark into
the picture and changed everything
it was the Carcharodontosaurus new kid
on the block wasn't afraid to go
head-to-head with a mighty Megalodon
when it came to hunting for prey how do
scientists know this well teeth marks of
the Carcharodontosaurus on liked to chew
as time move forward into the Pliocene
era whales were starting to disappear
while there were about 60 different
whale species in the previous Miocene
age only 40 remain by the time of the
Pliocene many of these whales had
evolved and sported baleen instead of
teeth these bristle looking things in
the whale's mouth serve as filtration
system that helps them catch more krill
their favorite food the krill they'd
feed on a primarily microscopic algae
known as diatoms
but around 3 million years ago the many
different kinds of diatoms started to
diminish leaving only a few different
types well it's still not known why this
happened it could have been due to a
shift in ocean water circulation because
of this lack of diatoms there weren't as
many krill swimming around which in turn
left whales with empty bellies as these
whales slowly disappeared so did the
Megalodon circle of life right at this
time the Megalodon had to put their game
faces on and fight even harder against
the great white sharks who were smaller
and faster that'd be like racing a Ford
Escape with a Porsche Carrera GT catch
my drift with these great white sharks
being more agile and smaller they
required less food than the Megalodon
and that bright siders is why 2.6
million years ago the very last
Megalodon roamed the oceans as the
scariest shark around giant blood hungry
predator or not there's always something
a little sad about species dying out
don't you think
[Music]
but what if the McClendon had survived
the whale food shortage and continued to
thrive with today's oceans look
different well you'd be way less likely
to go swimming in the ocean am i right
well jokes aside
today's marine life would be a little
different if the Megalodon were still
around for one thing we may not have the
massive whale species we've come to know
like the blue whale these guys can
measure up to 82 feet making them the
biggest animal we've ever seen on this
earth they managed to grow to such a
hefty size thanks to the fact that over
a couple million years these bigger
whales weren't hunted by the oceans new
smaller predators the great white shark
and the Orca without being on someone's
dinner plate larger species of whales
continue to grow and thrive becoming the
massive animals they are today
while today's great white sharks aren't
even close to being as big as the
Megalodon they seem to be following in
its fin steps
the great white grows about 3 feet
larger than its ancestors that swam
alongside the Megalodon during the
Pliocene on top of that they seem to
grow faster when they're younger similar
to how the Megalodon dead does this mean
that the great white has the potential
to become as large and fierce as the
Megalodon in the future well with whales
growing as big as they are today and the
great white thriving inner oceans the
next Megalodon could be right around the
corner well considering that it took
millions of years for the Megalodon to
evolve and grow as big as they were in
their prime that's gonna be one long and
distant corner so there you have it
scientific proof that the Megalodon no
longer exists sorry to burst your bubble
if you were hoping otherwise it looks
like the only Megalodon you'll be seeing
in the near future will be on screen
so what other scary prehistoric
creatures are you glad don't exist today
let us know down in the comments
remember to give this video a like share
it with your friends and click that
subscribe button
[Music]
you